<!-- themes: cats -->
# Why would anyone want to go back to 90s?
First, **humans tend to like going to earlier simpler times** when technology advances sufficiently (think Vinyl after Streaming, film photography after cell phone cameras).  Often times the simpler forms display the pure essence. The 90s internet wasn't about SEO, clickbait, and 3 hour meetings about the size of a button. It was about expressing yourself with themes, goofiness, and more importantly -- content. It was about the content, the fan site, the cool crazy ideas that some random person had. That is what markdown and the New Web tries to express -- content over UI, goofiness over seriousness.  I can think of no other time than the present where web technology has gotten both so complex and yet streamlined with AI tooling and modern JS Frameworks, making it fertile ground as the next Vinyl or Film.

Secondly, **web access for everyone**. You don't need to script to use the New Web, just markdown is all you need to know, easier to learn even than HTML. And since the New Web has no UI, no formatting, you don't need to worry about any of that -- you just type in what you want your website to say. And if you want to add scripts for greater interactivity or server-side complication (like taking payments) you can but absolutely don't need to.

Thirdly, **privacy**. Every script lies behind a link, and you know which ones (the ones with gear icons) and what data they are sending (if you click the gear icon) and what data they ask for (if inputs appear) before even providing it. Scripts only ever trigger with links, never onload, never in the background, never spying on you -- ever.

Finally, **script-playfulness**. Lots of tinkers liked writing small javascript snippets back in the day, and while we can't have the wild west of JS if we want privacy we can have small contained scripts triggered with user awareness. These can be written in any language anyone so chooses so long as it supports web assembly, although: Rust, TinyGo, and AssemblyScript are probably the wisest choices for optimal performance and low footprints.